chore(blog): add last summary of the year (#3463)
asyncapi/website: markdown/blog/2024-december-and-paris.md

excerpt: 'November and December Community Update And Paris Conference Summary'
featured: true
---
I can't believe we are in the final weeks of the year, and it has been an eventful one. As a community, we have experienced both proud and painful moments, celebrated our victories, and faced challenges and losses. However, in the end, we overcame those difficulties and emerged stronger and better.
 
Although this summary is a bit later than usual, I am excited to share the details of what happened in November and December and the highlights from the last conference of the year, which took place in Paris.

## AsyncAPI Community Building and Maintenance Goals Proposal 2025

The 2025 community building and maintenance goals proposal is currently open for discussion and will soon be put to a vote for TSC members. We would love your thoughts and suggestions, particularly when solving our community's challenges.
[Please take a moment to review the open PR related to the AsyncAPI Community Building Goals for 2025](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/pull/1575) to participate in the discussion and share your ideas and solutions.

## AsyncAPI Conf in Paris 2024

> The AsyncAPI Conf was back again in Paris this December, thanks to [Mehdi Medjaoui](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mehdimedjaoui/) and the amazing team at [APIdays](https://www.apidays.global/) for hosting and sponsoring the venue. We participated in the three-day event, celebrating a year of the `API Open Standards Booth` alongside friends from OpenAPI, JSON Schema, and GraphQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AsyncAPI Conf was back again in Paris this December, thanks to [Mehdi Medjaoui](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mehdimedjaoui/) and the amazing team at [APIdays](https://www.apidays.global/) for hosting and sponsoring the venue. We participated in the three-day event, celebrating a year of the `API Standards` booth alongside friends from OpenAPI, JSON Schema, and GraphQL. Special thanks to all the members of AsyncAPI community that could join the conference and help at the booth: [Hugo Guerrero](https://www.linkedin.com/in/hugoguerrero/), [Fran Méndez](https://www.linkedin.com/in/fmvilas/), [Richard Coppen](https://www.linkedin.com/in/richard-coppen/), [Hari Krishnan](https://www.linkedin.com/in/harikrishnan83/), [Lukasz Gornicki](https://www.linkedin.com/in/lukasz-gornicki-a621914/)
```

that was the final name we used

The AsyncAPI Conf track took place on the 3rd day of the conference, featuring an impressive lineup of sessions that attracted a diverse audience. The event was consistently packed, with attendees engaged throughout the day.

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/paris-conf-2024/full-room.webp"
  caption="Attendees engaged through the sessions."
  className="text-center"
/>

Fran and Lukasz started the track with a welcome speech and mentioned that AsyncAPI recently celebrated its 8th anniversary in November.

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/paris-conf-2024/lukasz-and-fran.webp"
  caption="Fran and Lukasz during the welcome speech."
  className="text-center"
/>

> Naresh Jain and Pierre Gauthier presented their keynote on `TM Forum's AsyncAPI for a New Era of Event-Driven Architecture`. During the session, they announced AsyncAPI as the standard, with over 100 telecommunications APIs already in production. TM Forum has around 800 telco companies, and they will implement all APIs in an async manner, extensively utilizing the request-reply pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Naresh Jain and Pierre Gauthier presented their keynote on `TMForum's AsyncAPI for a New Era of Event-Driven Architecture`. During the session, Pierre announced TMForum adopts AsyncAPI as a standard, with around 120 telco APIs already in production. TMForum has around 800 telco companies, and they will implement all APIs in an async manner, extensively utilizing the request-reply pattern.
```

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/paris-conf-2024/frank.webp"
  caption="Frank presenting on API Governance for EDA: Unlocking Developer Experience with AsyncAPI."
  className="text-center"
/>

Leonid shared how EDAs introduce new data models, protocols, and APIs not found in the traditional REST/CRUD application stack. And how one can abstract these elements to make them feel familiar to application developers, allowing them to create streaming applications seamlessly.

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/paris-conf-2024/leonid.webp"
  caption="Leonid presenting on Reimagining Streaming Apps with AsyncAPI and Postgres."
  className="text-center"
/>

Hugo then shared how the AsyncAPI Initiative is not only in charge of the specification but has created open-source projects to make it easier for developers to work with the specification documents.

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/paris-conf-2024/hugo.webp"
  caption="Hugo presenting on Using the AsyncAPI Ecosystem for Your Event-Driven Architecture."
  className="text-center"
/>

> Julien and Alessandro shared how organizations can harness the full potential of event-driven integration by leveraging GoldenGate Data Streams, AsyncAPI, and Solace PubSub+ Event Mesh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Julien and Alessandro shared how organizations can harness the full potential of event-driven integration by leveraging GoldenGate Data Streams, AsyncAPI, and Solace PubSub+ Event Mesh. They shared a great use case for AI and how it can be trained real-time and standardized with AsyncAPI.
```
